Create 2018-09-25-from-ui-to-motors.markdown (#4)
tue-robotics/tue-robotics.github.io: _posts/2018-09-25-from-ui-to-motors.markdown

---
layout: post
title:  "From UI to motors"
date:   2018-09-25 21:55:00
---

How do commands given to the robot get translated into motor commands? 

There are several layers to this, as you can see in 
[software-architecture.html](https://github.com/tue-robotics/tue-robotics.github.io/blob/master/software-architecture.html).
When you use [Telegram](https://telegram.org/) to chat with the robot, 
your text command first gets sent to the servers of Telegram, 
which passes the message on to our [telegram_ros](https://github.com/tue-robotics/telegram_ros) node. That node implements a [Telegram Bot](https://core.telegram.org/bots)

Instead of Telegram, there is also a speech-to-text engine on our robots, that take in audio and try to convert that to text.

> On Amigo, we use [dragonfly_speech_recognition](https://github.com/tue-robotics/dragonfly_speech_recognition). 

Reviewer: I miss a link to HMI.

In the last case, the conversion_engine talks with the user to fill in more details of the command, also using Telegram or via speech.

Once a sequence of actions is defined, it gets executed by the action_server, which also reports on the progress of the action.

The actions themselves are implemented using the [robot_smach_states](https://github.com/tue-robotics/tue_robocup/tree/master/robot_smach_states).
This is a library of various state machines that for example provide Grab, NavigateTo..., Place, LearnOperator actions.
Each of those accepts a robot-parameter, which is an instance of a Robot-subclass from the [robot_skills](https://github.com/tue-robotics/tue_robocup/tree/master/robot_skills)-package, for example Amigo, Sergio and Hero.
When the state machines execute, they call methods of RobotParts (eg. a Base, Arm, Head, Worldmodel etc), 
which in turn tap into the ROS [Action Servers](http://wiki.ros.org/actionlib#Client-Server_Interaction), [Services](http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Tutorials/UnderstandingServicesParams#ROS_Services) and [Topics](http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Tutorials/UnderstandingTopics) of the robot.

> In short, the robot_skills provide an abstract, mostly ROS-independent interface to the actual robot. 

Reviewer: The robot_skill layer is our python interface to all our ROS APIs. So that we don't need to create subscribers etc in the other parts of the python layer. This is not really represented in this explanation,

A major component in our robots is the worldmodel, called [ED](https://github.com/tue-robotics/ed) (Environment Descriptor).

> We use this to get a symbolic view on the world. ED Keeps track of objects and uses various plugins to e.g. recognize objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use this to get a symbolic representation of the world. ED Keeps track of objects and uses various plugins to e.g. recognize objects.
```

> ED also prvides a maps for the robot to localize itself and variosu other tasks. 

Reviewer: Localisation happens in a plugin. I don't think a map is provided by any API. A navigation map is provided by a topic.

There are several action_servers ont he robot, for example for navigation. 
ROS robots typoically use move_base but we have a bit more advanced version called [cb_base_navigation](https://github.com/tue-robotics/cb_base_navigation).

> The advantage of that is that we can move to an area (defined by some mathematically described constraints) rather than a single Pose.

Reviewer: Be more explicit and use the words: constraint based navigation.

Another action-server is provided by [MoveIt](https://moveit.ros.org/) to command the arms to various joint goals and cartesian goals.

> These planners talk with the hardware interface components, that use EtherCAT to interface with the motors and encoders to send references and read back what the various joint really did.

Reviewer: This layer also contains controllers and a supervisor.

Author: Not very familiar with this layer, plz elaborate

Author: That is now issue https://github.com/tue-robotics/tue-robotics.github.io/issues/5

> That is all published on the joint_states-topic. 

Reviewer: References to previous paragraph is unclear for inexperienced people. Also the whole TF doesn't fit in the structure of the rest. It feels like putting it here is a dirty solution.

When you use [Telegram](https://telegram.org/) to chat with the robot, 
your text command first gets sent to the servers of Telegram, 
which passes the message on to our [telegram_ros](https://github.com/tue-robotics/telegram_ros) node. That node implements a [Telegram Bot](https://core.telegram.org/bots)

Instead of Telegram, there is also a speech-to-text engine on our robots, that take in audio and try to convert that to text.
On Amigo, we use [dragonfly_speech_recognition](https://github.com/tue-robotics/dragonfly_speech_recognition). 
This also uses the grammar (as describer below) to aid in speech recognition. 
The grammar restricts what the STT can hear and thus the result is always something the robot can at least parse.

Because we want to be able to both talk to the robot and text with it, each taing turns or even falling back from one modality to another, we use the [HMI](https://github.com/tue-robotics/hmi). 
The Human Machine Interface provides a client that the GPSR's conversation_engine uses. This client is connected to several servers that implement some way for the robot to ask the user a question. 

> This can thus be voice (via STT)or text (via Telegram or Slack) or some mock interface for testing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can thus be voice (via STT) or text (via Telegram or Slack) or some mock interface for testing. 
```
